Create vision.md (#1226)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: vision.md

> 
> 
>  ## What is our vision?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Our Vision
```

> The aim of creating thin-edge.io is to provide a IoT edge device framework for IoT project teams which makes it easy to enable resource constrained devices for IoT. Unlike other solutions, we are not just another single-purpose agent but a flexible platform with re-usable components without any vendor lock-in, focused on adressing the needs of both IT and OT users. 

Reviewer 2: I would not use passive voice here -> "The aim of thin-edge.io is to provide"...

I also think that saying "Unlike other solutions" is not that interesting to potential readers. What other solutions? Why is not being a single-purpose agent a good thing?

What about: "thin-edge.io is a flexible platform focused on bridging the gap between IT and OT users. It achieves this using re-usable components and without any vendor lock-in!"

Author: @TheNeikos "Why is not being a single-purpose agent a good thing?" 
Answer: this is one of the reasons we started thin-edge.io, because we have collected evidence that:
- single purpose agents are hard to maintain and do not offer the flexibility needed for iot solutions
- single purpose agents are often bound to a specific device 
- single purpose agents have usually only few people who can develop them , and those embedded devlopers are hard to find

Author: thin-edge.io is a flexible platform focused on bridging the gap between IT and OT users. It achieves this by using reusable components and without any vendor lock-in. - that's what we agreed to replace it with

> ## What is our motivation?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Our motivation?
```

Reviewer: I would even remove the `?`!

Reviewer 2: > I would even remove the `?`!

Done!

> While, we believe that IoT (edge/device management, middleware, data analytics) are the driving forces of the fourth industrial revolution, where companies are forced to leverage IoT solutions to stay competitive, we are observing that a large amount of companies are suffering from failed IoT projects and initiatives, where a lot of time and money is spent on device enablement (e.g. connectivity, security, device management).

Reviewer 2: I think this is very defensively written. I think being bolder on the statements would make it clearer:

```suggestion
We believe that IoT (edge/device management, middleware, data analytics) are the driving forces of the fourth industrial revolution: companies are forced to leverage IoT solutions to stay competitive. In the past a large amount of companies have suffered from failed IoT projects and initiatives, where a lot of time and money was spent on device enablement: connectivity, security, device management, etc...
```

> Thats why we created thin-edge.io, to provide an easy and flexible way for IoT project teams and device manufactures to make their devices “IoT-ready” without having to "re-invent the wheel" with costly and time-consuming (embedded) development projects.

Reviewer 2: Similarly here

```suggestion
Thats why we created thin-edge.io. It provides an easy and flexible way for IoT project teams and device manufactures to make their devices IoT-ready without having to re-invent the wheel with costly and time-consuming, potentially embedded, development projects.
```

> ## What are our target segments?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Our target segments?
```

> **B2B (IoT) Service providers:**  IoT services providers are companies that are building and offering products and services based on IoT technology. For them it is crucial to deliver business outcomes and return on investment fast, as they are dealing with a lot of end-customers who themselves in the past often failed “homegrown” IoT initiatives. There is no willingness from the end customer to spend large amount of money and time on device connectivity. Therefore thin-edge.io for them is a critical foundation to solve the connectivity challenge and to focus on the business applications rather then the connectivity and device management aspects, which are in a lot of cases considered “hygiene factors”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**B2B (IoT) Service providers:**  IoT services providers are companies that are building and offering products and services based on IoT technology. For them it is crucial to deliver business outcomes and return on investment fast, as they are dealing with a lot of end-customers who themselves in the past often failed “homegrown” IoT initiatives. There is no willingness from the end customer to spend a large amount of money and time on device connectivity. Therefore thin-edge.io for them is a critical foundation to solve the connectivity challenge and to focus on the business applications rather then connectivity and device management aspects, which are in a lot of cases considered “hygiene factors”.
```

**Smart equipment operators:** Rather than dealing with single equipment, smart operators are looking to enhance or optimize whole manufacturing processes with the help of IIoT. Operating complex manufacturing systems requires not only to handle various industry protocols and assets but also requires to connect and manage a heterogeneous set of industrial devices and hardware such as PLCs, protocol converters or industrial gateways. Here thin-edge.io helps to unify the complex device landscape by offering lightweight software modules which can run on resource constrained, brownfield hardware.

> ## Who are our target users/personas?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Our target users/personas?
```

Reviewer: ...and here, without the `?`?

Within the different target segments, we are addressing the following personas with thin-edge.io:

> **(IoT) Solution Developer/ Solution Architect** (with background such as Python, Java, JS, Angular, Kubernetes, Cloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**(IoT) Solution Developer/ Solution Architect**: Background consisting of Python, Java, JS, Angular, Kubernetes, Cloud Platforms
```

- Responsible for :
	- Implementing and maintaining the end-to-end IoT solution
	- Often juggling multiple initiatives covering a broad range of technology stacks in addition to implement and maintaining solutions.

> - Challenges and needs reagarding device enablement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Challenges and needs regarding device enablement:
```

	- Lack of expertise and knowledge in embedded space
	- Dealing with fragmented hardware / linux variants
	- Lack of time to focus on device enablement as building IoT applications on cloud side is main responsibility

> 	- No interest/time to dive into “hygiene” factors as device management and security

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- No interest/time to dive into “hygiene factors” as device management and security
```

> 	- Expect ready to use or configuration based solution, with pre-defined design principles and framework, offering easy extensibility  with known tools/languages 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- Expect ready to use or configuration based solution, with pre-defined design principles and framework, offering easy extensibility with known tools/languages 
```

> **Device developer / Embedded engineer** with background in Linux, C/C++, C#, embedded systems (IT focused)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Device developer / Embedded engineer**: background consisting of Linux, C/C++, C#, embedded systems (IT focused)
```

- Responsible for
	- device logic including firmware and software

> 	- primary only tasked to connect one or many devices/types to overall IoT solution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- primarily only tasked to connect one or many devices/types to overall IoT solution
```

- Challenges and needs reagarding device enablement:
	- enable new services and connectivity on the device while keeping stability and robustness (while having limited computing resources)

> 	- dealing with certificates, queuing and persisting messages to handle instable connections, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- dealing with certificates, queuing and persisting messages to handle unstable connections
```

	- allowing the device to be managed centrally, to keep it secure and up-to-date (while important to him not always #1 prio to overall initiative/project)

- Special case : embedded dev with OT focus
	- familiar with PLCs, SCADA systems,
	- dealing with emerging need for connectivtiy and IIoT 
	- key concern is security, robusteness and resource efficiency which is usually overruling any “typical” IT solution on the device and implies some kind of custom logic. (e.g. rather closed OS, no dependencies can be installed, very strict certification and QA process , no CI/CD possible, long prodcut lifecycle 10-20 years)

**Summary:**

> The persona types adressed by thin-edge.io often have conflicting requirements and views, this itself is addressed by the project technology vision and design principles, allowing thin-edge.io acting as a brindge between the OT and IT world. 

Reviewer 2: Please add a summary of what those conflicting requirements are. If they are fundamentally conflicting, then how can thin-edge still be useful to both? What solutions or tradeoffs would these personas have to make?

> ## What persona needs and problems do we address?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Persona needs and solutions
```

**Key problems for users:**

> Until now, when developing device software, IoT proejct teams and device builders had to spend a lot of time solving generic challenges such as connecting to a cloud or IoT, dealing with certificates, queuing and persisting messages to handle instable connections or allowing the device to be managed centrally, to keep it secure and up-to-date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Until now, when developing device software, IoT project teams and device builders were spending a lot of time solving generic challenges such as connecting to a cloud or IoT, dealing with certificates, queuing and persisting messages to handle unstable connections or allowing the device to be managed centrally, to keep it secure and up-to-date.
```

> Today, to overcome those challenges customers can either implement all those components themselves, which typical results in complex embedded code, which usually has less Individual, device-specific, custom code which needs to be maintained over the complete device lifecycle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To overcome these challenges today, customers can either implement all those components themselves, which typical results in complex embedded as well as individual, device-specific code which needs to be maintained over the complete device lifecycle.
```

> Implementing all those functionalities on has very high complexity.  Furthermore, more and more companies require devices to be more flexible and host additional software which might be needed to offer new digital services to customers., while taking into account non-functional requirements such as low resource footprint, security and robustness.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Implementing these functionalities oneself has not only a very high complexity but also an opportunity cost, as those resources could have been used for more specific business needs. On top of that, companies wish to be more and more flexible so as to stay relevant in an ever-changing digital landscape.

Of course, any generic solution would have to walk the very tight path of keeping a low resource footprint, strong security and robustness.
```

Reviewer: What about

```
... oneself does not only face a very high complexity,...
```

> The combination of those challenges often leads a series of custom developed embedded software that is expensive to maintain and extend. Also, most of the development used to be specific to one cloud or IoT platform. At the same time for more and more use-cases moving logic and analytics to the embedded edge device becomes a must for reasons such latency, security or cost. However, moving, and orchestrating workloads on the Edge used to be very challenging as it also requires a lot of custom logic to be developed on the device, to be able to integrate and support various device management platforms.

Reviewer 2: These sentences are somewhat hard to read. I think it would be better to split them up and rephrase them so as not to repeat the previous sentiment. (Or remove them).

**Example applications scenarios:** 

> Edge/embedded devices are critical compontent of any connected asset/smart equipment or operator use case. Within the different use-cases and application scenarios, edge can take over different roles to address different IoT challnges: 

Reviewer 2: Why 'edge/embedded' ? Is it either-or? If it is edge _and_ embedded, I'd remove the slash.

> Edge/embedded devices are critical compontent of any connected asset/smart equipment or operator use case. Within the different use-cases and application scenarios, edge can take over different roles to address different IoT challnges: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Edge/embedded devices are critical components of any connected asset/smart equipment or operator use case. Within the different use-cases and application scenarios, the edge can take over different roles to address different IoT challenges: 
```

Reviewer: I guess you missed: "use case" -> "usecase" in the first sentence.

Reviewer: And "use-cases" -> "usecases" in the second?

> -   Edge devices as machine gateway:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Edge devices as a machine gateway:
```

	- A typical problem for the target personas is the integration of  various asset specific OT interfaces to establish connection to fieldbus or industry protocols. 
- Supporting IoT and other Northbound connectivity 
	- Vendor agnostic connectivtiy of the data plane and control plane, analytics and service/app orchestration from various IoT platforms is required for all future IoT use-cases, as hyperscaler platforms and end-customer vendor preferences might vary. 

> -   Edge devices as deployment option for IoT services and applications 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Edge devices as deployment option for IoT services and applications 
```

> 	- There is increasing need for device specifc applications close to the device e.g. device configuration, control logic, local monitoring, here a flexible software management framework is needed which is independent from the preferred sw artefact type due to different hardware, OS variants and package managers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- There is an increasing need for device specific applications close to the device e.g. device configuration, control logic, local monitoring, here a flexible software management framework is needed which is independent from the preferred software artifact type due to different hardware, OS variants and package managers. 
```

> -   There is an emerging needs for Edge analytics such as data filtering, pre-aggregation, ML model execution. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- There is an emerging needs for Edge analytics such as data filtering, pre-aggregation, ML model execution. 
```

> -   Edge devices as configuration/management interface for asset - local/remote UI for asset configuration/management including software and firmware management of underlying systems to keep them secure and up-to date

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Edge devices as configuration/management interface for asset - local/remote UI for asset configuration/management including software and firmware management of underlying systems to keep them secure and up-to date
```

> ## What is it and why thin-edge.io is a game changer?

Reviewer 2: I don't like the wording of 'game changer' but maybe like this?

```suggestion
## thin-edge.io as a game changer
```

> To address the problems above, we created thin-edge.io as a framework for lightweight IoT gateways, PLC’s, routers and other embedded devices which require integration and interoperability with IoT platforms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To address the problems above, we are creating thin-edge.io as a framework for lightweight IoT gateways, PLC’s, routers and other embedded devices which require integration and interoperability with IoT platforms.
```

> The framework includes modules for cloud connectivity, data mapping, device management, intra-edge communication, and certificate management, all aspects and challenges our target personas need to address.

Reviewer 2: Is 'data mapping' an actual user need, or is it more of an implementation detail?

```suggestion
The framework includes modules for cloud connectivity, data mapping, device management, intra-edge communication, and certificate management, all aspects and challenges our target personas need to address.
```

> In combination with IoT platforms, thin-edge.io is a foundation for enabling the devices with the following capabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In combination with IoT platforms, thin-edge.io is a foundation for enabling devices with the following capabilities:
```

- support for effortless and secure edge device lifecycle management for single and device fleets
- support for low-touch provisioning of thin edge devices
- support for local and remote configuration
- support for local and remote maintenance including remote access (monitoring/troubleshooting),
- decommissioning of thin devices (e.g. for security compromosed or end of life devices)

Based on the challenge to capture both, the OT and IT persona needs, thin-edge.io is focused on following design principles:

> - providing ready-to-use components available on wide-range of hardware, embedded linux varaints (thin edge layer)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- providing ready-to-use components available on wide-range of hardware and embedded linux variants (thin edge layer)
```

- allowing control and orchestration from IoT (device management)  platforms

> - effortless and secure edge software management for different software artefact types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- effortless and secure edge software management for different software artifact types
```

> - support effortless and secure edge analytics execution/ management for different analytics artefact types and runtimes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- support effortless and secure edge analytics execution/management for different analytics artifact types and runtimes
```

> **Why are we uniquely positioned to “win” this?**

Reviewer 2: I think focusing on the tradeoff aspect would be better!

```suggestion
**Why are we uniquely positioned to be competitive?**
```

> thin-edge.io offers a unique approach to unify the needs of both the IT and OT world by offering a platform design focused on efficiency robustness and security while offering highest level of extensibility and wider range of hardware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
thin-edge.io offers a unique approach to unify the needs of both the IT and OT world by offering a platform design focused on efficiency robustness and security while offering the highest level of extensibility and wide range of hardware.
```

Reviewer: Missing comma between "efficiency" and "robustness"!

Also: We're offering hardware? I guess something else was meant here, wasn't it? :laughing:

> - Compared to other frameworks we are not restricting users towards one specific software artefact type, package manager, programming language or message payload to be used on the device

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Compared to other frameworks we are not restricting users towards one specific software artifact type, package manager, programming language or message payload to be used on the device
```

- We combine robust and lightweight components with extensibility (plug-in mechanisms, mapper concept for cloud/platform support)

> - we offer out of the box modules to be used in combination with device management platforms
> 
> - we offer hardware and infrastructure agnostic deployment of all edge capabilities
> 
> ## Additional Questions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- We offer out-of-the-box modules to be used in combination with device management platforms

- We offer hardware and infrastructure agnostic deployment of all edge capabilities

## Additional Questions
```

# What is our vision?

The aim of creating thin-edge.io is to provide a IoT edge device framework for
IoT project teams which makes it easy to enable resource constrained devices for
IoT. Unlike other solutions, we are not just another single-purpose agent but a
flexible platform with re-usable components without any vendor lock-in, focused

> on adressing the needs of both IT and OT users.

Author: @didier-wenzek  I realized you question realte to questions you ask in prodcut strategy and not prodcut vision, while there are some indications of answers to them below I do not think they fit into this document

## Our motivation

> We believe that IoT (edge/device management, middleware, data analytics) are the

Reviewer 4: I would add machine learning to the set ( data analytics doesnt explicitly capture it)

driving forces of the fourth industrial revolution: companies are forced to
leverage IoT solutions to stay competitive. In the past a large amount of
companies have suffered from failed IoT projects and initiatives, where a lot of
time and money was spent on device enablement: connectivity, security, device

> management, etc...

Reviewer 4: Like @didier-wenzek proposal

Thats why we are creating thin-edge.io. It provides an easy and flexible way for
IoT project teams and device manufactures to make their devices IoT-ready

> without having to re-invent the wheel with costly and time-consuming,

Reviewer 5: I am not sure I understand this sentence. Might be worth considering to split it into multiple sentences.

Proposal:

> Thats why we are creating thin-edge.io. It provides an easy and flexible way for IoT project teams and device manufactures to make their devices IoT-ready. This saves them time as they do not have to re-invent the wheel with costly and time-consuming, potentially embedded, development projects. Also the modular architecture does not force IoT project teams to start from scratch but thin-edge.io can be enabled for existing projects or applications.

potentially embedded, development projects and without having to reevaluate
existing projects or applications to enable them with thin-edge.io.

> ## Our target segments

Reviewer 5: It seems that when it comes to device integration / thin-edge.io all three target segments listed here have very similar needs. I believe it would be rather interesting to look at the target industries, use-cases (remote monitoring, software management, ML model execution, ?) and target device types, thin-edge.io is designed for (IoT Gateways, PLCs, etc.) and which it is not designed for (e.g. micro-controllers, LPWAN sensors, battery constrained devices?, Industrial PCs?, etc.)

Author: In this section the idea is to focus on the target segments and their most important needs. I will check if we can incorporate deeper statements regardign monitoring, software management and ML topics and device types in later sections.

go from a POC implementation with thin-edge.io in their ecosystem to a rollout
in production with little friction.

**(Smart) Equipment makers/Hardware manufacturers/OEMs:** Equipment
Manufacturers are moving away from focusing primarily on selling their equipment
towards selling their equipment as a service (EaaS). An IIoT platform allowing
to connect and manage assets as well as to use the visualize, analyze, and
integrate equipment data is often the foundation to enable service-based
business models and services. Here thin-edge.io is used as a foundation to bring
"intelligence" around the equipment. Combined with any IoT platform, single
purpose gateways or devices which sit on the equipment can be transformed into
edge deployment options for services and applications that support the overall
EaaS business model by leveraging thin-egdge.io framework.
As equipment may be deployed remotely and not always physically accessible,
thin-edge.io ensures a high level of robustness and security.

**Smart equipment operators:** Rather than dealing with single equipment, smart
operators are looking to enhance or optimize whole manufacturing processes with

> the help of IIoT. Operating complex manufacturing systems requires not only to

Reviewer 4: Seems like we are a bit too narrowly focusing on manufacturing here.

> **B2B (IoT) Service providers:**  IoT services providers are companies that are
> building and offering products and services based on IoT technology. For them it
> is crucial to deliver business outcomes and return on investment fast, as they
> are dealing with a lot of end-customers who themselves in the past often failed
> "homegrown" IoT initiatives. There is no willingness from the end customer to
> spend a large amount of money and time on device connectivity. Therefore
> thin-edge.io for them is a critical foundation to solve the connectivity
> challenge and to focus on the business applications rather then connectivity and
> device management aspects, which are in a lot of cases considered "hygiene
> factors".
> thin-edge.io enables them to connect industrial sensors and automation to a cloud
> service.
> High assurances in quality and scalability of thin-edge.io, not only itself but
> also in combination with custom-developed components, let the Service Provider
> go from a POC implementation with thin-edge.io in their ecosystem to a rollout
> in production with little friction.
> 
> **(Smart) Equipment makers/Hardware manufacturers/OEMs:** Equipment
> Manufacturers are moving away from focusing primarily on selling their equipment
> towards selling their equipment as a service (EaaS). An IIoT platform allowing
> to connect and manage assets as well as to use the visualize, analyze, and
> integrate equipment data is often the foundation to enable service-based
> business models and services. Here thin-edge.io is used as a foundation to bring
> "intelligence" around the equipment. Combined with any IoT platform, single
> purpose gateways or devices which sit on the equipment can be transformed into
> edge deployment options for services and applications that support the overall
> EaaS business model by leveraging thin-egdge.io framework.
> As equipment may be deployed remotely and not always physically accessible,
> thin-edge.io ensures a high level of robustness and security.
> 
> **Smart equipment operators:** Rather than dealing with single equipment, smart
> operators are looking to enhance or optimize whole manufacturing processes with
> the help of IIoT. Operating complex manufacturing systems requires not only to
> handle various industry protocols and assets but also requires to connect and
> manage a heterogeneous set of industrial devices and hardware such as PLCs,
> protocol converters or industrial gateways. Here thin-edge.io helps to unify the
> complex device landscape by offering lightweight software modules which can run
> on resource constrained, brownfield hardware.
> The framework does so by providing a frictionless user experience to enable
> customers to develop their own solutions based on the included functionality but
> also by attaching custom functionality with minimum effort.

Author: ```suggestion
While the thin-edge.io framework addresses a broad range of customer segments, it is primarily used in industrial or manufacturing environments by companies that can be characterized as: 
 
-       Industrial gateway or IoT hardware manufacturers (e.g. industrial routers, PLCs or embedded Linux devices) 
-       IIoT service providers (IoT or industrial automation software companies) 
-       Industrial equipment makers and operators (machine builders, OEMs)
 
For them thin-edge.io can be used as a foundation to build new digital services and products. 
 
More specifically thin-edge.io focuses on addressing the overlapping needs and challenges around:
1.     device connectivity (e.g. connect industrial sensors and automation equipment to a cloud service) 
2.     device management (e.g. monitoring the health of the device or keeping software, firmware, and configurations up to date via a central device management platform)
3.     device customization (e.g. extending the capabilities of the existing gateway with additional services and applications with thin-edge.io integrated with optional custom-developed components)
 
thin-edge.io helps to unify the complex device landscape by offering lightweight software modules which can run on resource-constrained, brownfield hardware. Furthermore, it is providing a frictionless user experience to enable customers to develop their own solutions based on the included functionality but also by attaching custom functionality with minimum effort. The high level of robustness, security, and scalability allows going from a POC implementation with thin-edge.io to a rollout in production with little friction.
```
I tried to shorten everything and capture the most important points while removing "empty phrases"

Reviewer 6: I prefer by far the new wording, notably the 3 pillars (connectivity, management, customization) on top of which smart equipment makers can build their own solutions.

I'm less convinced by the last paragraph. By trying to say to much, it fails to convey key points.

Reviewer 4: The point about quick time to value is well made in the last paragraph. One option to add that comment to the vision statement and remove the paragraph.

## Users and Personas

We define the following personas:

- "End User"
    - Person using a binary that has been built with the thin-edge.io framework
      as well as a finished and working configuration

- "System Integrator"
    - Person using a binary that has been built with the thin-edge.io framework

>       and crafts a configuration suited to solve their problems

Reviewer 4: Sounds good.

- "Interface Developer"
    - Person using the foreign interfaces of a thin-edge.io framework binary to
      complement and extend its functionality.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
An example for an "Interface Developer" is a **(IoT)
Solution Developer/ Solution Architect**: Background consisting of Python, Java,
JS, Angular, Kubernetes, Cloud Platforms:

- Responsible for implementing and maintaining the end-to-end IoT
  solution including the needed logic on the device (aka device agent)
- Challenges and needs regarding device enablement:
    - Lack of expertise and knowledge in embedded space, therefore prefers configurations or extensions in python
    - Dealing with fragmented hardware / linux variants
    - Focused on expertise outside of embedded device enablement such as analytics, sensor integration or dashboarding 
    - Expect ready to use or configuration-based solutions, with
      pre-defined design principles and framework, offering easy
      extensibility with known tools/languages
```

- "Plugin Developer"
    - Person using the provided Rust crates to extend or improve binary plugins
      written for the thin-edge.io framework

> 

Author: ```suggestion
An example for "Plugin Developer" is a **Device developer / Embedded engineer** whose background consists of Linux, C/C++, C#, embedded systems (IT focused):

- Responsible for
    - device logic including firmware and software
    - primarily only tasked to connect one or many devices/types to overall IoT
      solution
- Challenges and needs regarding device enablement:
    - enable new services and connectivity on the device while keeping stability
      and robustness (while having limited computing resources)
    - dealing with certificates, queuing, and persisting messages to handle
      unstable connections
    - allowing the device to be managed centrally, to keep it secure and
      up-to-date (while important to him not always #1 prio to overall
      initiative/project)

Also an "Embedded Developer" with OT focus is an example of a "Plugin Developer":

- familiar with PLCs, SCADA systems,
- dealing with the emerging need for connectivity and IIoT
- key concern is security, robustness, and resource efficiency which is
  usually overruling any "typical" IT solution on the device and implies
  some kind of custom logic. (e.g. rather closed OS, no dependencies can be
  installed, very strict certification and QA process, no CI/CD possible,
  long product lifecycle 10-20 years)
```

Reviewer 6: These details don't help me. All the developers must be concerned by security and robustness. Their domain of expertise (business domain and development stack) might be diverse and independent of their use of thin-edge.

What is discriminant for us is their goal.
* An "agent developer" is focused on assembling components to build an application specific IoT agent (say the agents deployed by a smart meter company).
* A "plugin developer" is focused on providing access for a specific feature to any thin-edge software that might need it (e.g an Apama plugin).

- "Core Developer"
    - Person writing on the provided Rust crates as hosted on github.com

> An example for a "System Integrator" or an "Interface Developer" is a **(IoT)
> Solution Developer/ Solution Architect**: Background consisting of Python, Java,
> JS, Angular, Kubernetes, Cloud Platforms:
> 
> - Responsible for implementing and maintaining the end-to-end IoT
>   solution
> - Often juggling multiple initiatives covering a broad range of
>   technology stacks in addition to implement and maintaining
>   solutions.
> - Challenges and needs regarding device enablement:
>     - Lack of expertise and knowledge in embedded space
>     - Dealing with fragmented hardware / linux variants
>     - Lack of time to focus on device enablement as building IoT
>       applications on cloud side is main responsibility
>     - No interest/time to dive into "hygiene factors" as device
>       management and security
>     - Expect ready to use or configuration based solution, with
>       pre-defined design principles and framework, offering easy
>       extensibility with known tools/languages

Author: ```suggestion
```
moved under interface developer

> An example for an "Interface Developer" or a "Plugin Developer" is a **Device
> developer / Embedded engineer** whos background consisting of Linux, C/C++, C#,
> embedded systems (IT focused):
> 
> - Responsible for
>     - device logic including firmware and software
>     - primarily only tasked to connect one or many devices/types to overall IoT
>       solution
> - Challenges and needs reagarding device enablement:
>     - enable new services and connectivity on the device while keeping stability
>       and robustness (while having limited computing resources)
>     - dealing with certificates, queuing and persisting messages to handle
>       unstable connections
>     - allowing the device to be managed centrally, to keep it secure and
>       up-to-date (while important to him not always #1 prio to overall
>       initiative/project)
> 
> An "Embedded Developer" with OT focus is an example of a "Plugin Developer":
> 
> - familiar with PLCs, SCADA systems,
> - dealing with emerging need for connectivity and IIoT
> - key concern is security, robusteness and resource efficiency which is
>   usually overruling any "typical" IT solution on the device and implies
>   some kind of custom logic. (e.g. rather closed OS, no dependencies can be
>   installed, very strict certification and QA process, no CI/CD possible,
>   long prodcut lifecycle 10-20 years)

Author: ```suggestion
```

moved to plugin developer

The persona types adressed by thin-edge.io often have conflicting
requirements and views, this itself is addressed by the project technology
vision and design principles, allowing thin-edge.io acting as a bridge between
the OT and IT world.

> ## Persona needs and solutions

Author: ```suggestion
## Pain points addressed by thin-edge.io 
```

Reviewer 6: Sounds better

    - A typical problem for the target personas is the integration of various
      asset specific OT interfaces to establish connection to fieldbus or
      industry protocols.
- Supporting IoT and other Northbound connectivity
    - Vendor agnostic connectivtiy of the data plane and control plane,
      analytics and service/app orchestration from various IoT platforms is
      required for all future IoT use-cases, as hyperscaler platforms and
      end-customer vendor preferences might vary.
- Edge devices as deployment option for IoT services and applications
    - There is an increasing need for device specific applications close to the
      device e.g. device configuration, control logic, local monitoring, here a
      flexible software management framework is needed which is independent from
      the preferred software artifact type due to different hardware, OS
      variants and package managers.
- There is an emerging need for Edge analytics such as data filtering,
  pre-aggregation, ML model execution.
- Edge devices as configuration/management interface for asset - local/remote UI
  for asset configuration/management including software and firmware management

>   of underlying systems to keep them secure and up-to date

Reviewer 6: This can be moved in some top level documentation. e.g. https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1416

> ## thin-edge.io as a game changer

Author: ```suggestion
## Benefits and key capabilities
```

      users are able to disable or even remove those parts from deployed
      binaries
    - For example: if only approved and audited components are allowed to be
      used
1. Deriving specialized implementations/binaries from the framework is possible
    - The thin-edge.io ships a potentially large all-in-one binary with as much
      functionality as the project provides, but
    - Tailoring down the binary and removing unused functionality is easily
      doable with minimal effort by a System Integrator
    - Building a specialized binary with additional custom functionality is
      easily doable by an Plugin Developer
1. As little overhead as possible
    1. in CPU time: The Framework ensures that the absolute minimum of CPU time
       is consumed to deliver the desired functionality the user configured the
       framework to do
    1. in Memory usage: The Framework ensures that as little as possible memory
       is in use, at every point in execution time, as possible
1. Compatibility
    - Configuration and components are written in such a way that they may be
      changed in the future with no or minimal impact on their intended purpose

> ### Functional requirements

Reviewer 5: Previously, we mention that thin-edge.io should also allow to integrate with existing projects / device software. I believe that this is important for each device manufacturer who has already significantly invested in device software and does not want to start from scratch. Is this a requirement we should add here?

   format
    - JSON is the lingua franca, but other forms may be acceptable if they stay
      within the capabilites of JSON
    - json-schema is used to document the (JSON) format in a machine-readable
      way
1. The principal way of extending thin-edge.io is over well-defined Rust interfaces (traits and other types)
    - This does not preclude other forms of extensions in other languages (i.e.
      a bridge over MQTT to python)
1. Starting a thin-edge.io binary for development use or production use is not
   interactive
    - Starting a thin-edge.io binary for setup or similar purposes may be
      interactive
1. Components can persist data using the framework
    - to persist data between restarts of the deployment
    - to cache data during network outages
    - to provide operation checkpoints during sensitive operations
1. User-configurable logging is provided via the framework
    - A user is able to configure logging per-component as well as globally for
      the framework

### Capabilities

<!--
The following list of capabilities should be considered non-final. It might be
extended in the future.
-->

> 

Author: ```suggestion
We believe that device enablement for the major cloud providers in the IIoT space should not only be easy and secure but also easily extensible for various IoT services to allow a best-of-breed combination of IoT capabilities from multiple platforms/services. 
 
Therefore thin-edge.io focused on providing: 
 
- An out-of-the-box integration with IoT and cloud platforms as well as an extensible connectivity framework to create additional cloud/IIoT platform connectors with state-of-the-art security. 
```

In combination with IoT platforms, thin-edge.io is a foundation for enabling
devices with the following capabilities:

1. Connectivity to the major cloud providers in the IIOT space
    - for effortless and secure edge device lifecycle management for single
      and device fleets
    - for low-touch provisioning of thin edge devices
    - for local and remote configuration
    - for local and remote maintenance including remote access
      (monitoring/troubleshooting)
    - decommissioning of thin devices (e.g. for security compromised or end of
      life devices)

> 1. "South bound" connectivity to devices via the major protocols in the IIOT industry

Author: ```suggestion
An foundation for easy integration of existing "South bound" connectivity software and drivers to support major protocols in the IIoT industry. The intention of this is to primarily enable existing protocol libraries to be easily integrated with other thin-edge.io components and the overarching cloud/IIoT platform. 
```

1. On-device data preprocessing
    1. Analytical (timeseries analysis, ML, etc...)
    2. Mathematical operations (avg, sum, etc...)
    3. Logical operations

> 1. On-device data generation (e.g. generating of events)
> 1. Device management functionality
>     1. OS updates
>     1. Package updates
>     1. Configuration updates (Of both the thin-edge.io deployment as well as other software)
>     1. Firmware updates for "south bound"/child devices
> 1. Device interaction
>     1. File upload/download
>     1. Filesystem listings
>     1. General system informations
> 1. Persist data as given by components in different databases (e.g. PostgreSQL, Sqlite, MongoDB, Redis, Memcached, ...)
> 1. Documentation of each component and their configuration
>     - This includes information on how to configure each configurable aspect of the component and its valid states
>     - This also includes all message types that the framework knows about
>     - Users with custom thin-edge.io deployments must be able to generate such a documentation themselves

Author: ```suggestion
```

can be removed as its included in the device management section above. I would move a lot of those details to design prinsciples or roadmap md

## Closing words

thin-edge.io offers a unique approach to unify the needs of both the IT and OT
world by offering a platform design focused on efficiency robustness and
security while offering the highest level of extensibility.

- We are not restricting users towards one specific software artifact type,
  package manager, programming language or message payload to be used on the

>   device

Reviewer 5: Should we add cloud platform here as well?

Reviewer 4: We need to be consistent, if we are more comfortable calling thin-edge.io as "framework" rather than a "platfomr"- then we should use the same throughout the document.

    - There is an increasing need for device specific applications close to the
      device e.g. device configuration, control logic, local monitoring, here a
      flexible software management framework is needed which is independent from
      the preferred software artifact type due to different hardware, OS
      variants and package managers.
- There is an emerging need for Edge analytics such as data filtering,
  pre-aggregation, ML model execution.
- Edge devices as configuration/management interface for asset - local/remote UI
  for asset configuration/management including software and firmware management
  of underlying systems to keep them secure and up-to date

## thin-edge.io as a game changer

To address the problems above, we create thin-edge.io as a framework for
lightweight IoT gateways, PLC’s, routers and other embedded devices which
require integration and interoperability with IoT platforms.

The framework includes modules for cloud connectivity, data mapping, device
management, intra-edge communication, and certificate management, all aspects
and challenges our target personas need to address.

We therefore define the following requirements.

> ### Non-functional requirements

Reviewer 6: I will do that.

<!--
The following list of non-functional requirements should be considered
non-final. It might be extended in the future.
-->

1. Multi-paradigm edge framework
    - Several kinds of users are be able to consume thin-edge.io at different
      stages (e.g. using the Rust code as a framework to develop their own
      solutions, using (networking)interfaces like for example MQTT to attach
      their own infrastructure to thin-edge.io, or using the final

>       deployment-ready binary to solve their problems).

Reviewer 6: I'm a bit uneasy with this statement about Rust. Sure the goal is not to build a tool for Rust developers but for IoT developers. However, we use Rust as a foundation and giving Rust developers the right API to extend thin-edge is a key factor for adoption.

    - Not all functionalities of the framework are required in every use-case,
      users are able to disable or even remove those parts from deployed
      binaries
    - For example: if only approved and audited components are allowed to be
      used
1. Deriving specialized implementations/binaries from the framework is possible
    - The thin-edge.io ships a potentially large all-in-one binary with as much
      functionality as the project provides, but
    - Tailoring down the binary and removing unused functionality is easily
      doable with minimal effort by a System Integrator
    - Building a specialized binary with additional custom functionality is
      easily doable by an Plugin Developer
1. As little overhead as possible
    1. in CPU time: The Framework ensures that the absolute minimum of CPU time
       is consumed to deliver the desired functionality the user configured the
       framework to do
    1. in Memory usage: The Framework ensures that as little as possible memory
       is in use, at every point in execution time, as possible
1. Compatibility
    - Configuration and components are written in such a way that they may be

>       changed in the future with no or minimal impact on their intended purpose

Reviewer 6: The border between the business and technical visions is fuzzy ;-)

Technical requirements that must be part of the business vision are about interoperability, stability and long term support. If we want external contributions for specific features, one must ensure that all these plugins (that have been independently implemented) will work together now and in the future.

   interactive
    - Starting a thin-edge.io binary for setup or similar purposes may be
      interactive
1. Components can persist data using the framework
    - to persist data between restarts of the deployment
    - to cache data during network outages
    - to provide operation checkpoints during sensitive operations
1. User-configurable logging is provided via the framework
    - A user is able to configure logging per-component as well as globally for
      the framework

### Capabilities

<!--
The following list of capabilities should be considered non-final. It might be
extended in the future.
-->

In combination with IoT platforms, thin-edge.io is a foundation for enabling
devices with the following capabilities:

1. Connectivity to the major cloud providers in the IIOT space
    - for effortless and secure edge device lifecycle management for single
      and device fleets
    - for low-touch provisioning of thin edge devices
    - for local and remote configuration
    - for local and remote maintenance including remote access
      (monitoring/troubleshooting)
    - decommissioning of thin devices (e.g. for security compromised or end of
      life devices)

> 1. "South bound" connectivity to devices via the major protocols in the IIOT industry

Author: again we are the "foundation" but we should make clear whether we will build or will not build protocol "drivers" . We are an interface to those and protocol drivers can be extensions or plugins but the core group would not have a focus on building open source drivers correct?

> 1. On-device data preprocessing

Author: Similar to above: If we call those feautres out we should make clear that we are just making it easy to leverage exisiitng analytics solutions but not develop them ourselfes.

    1. Analytical (timeseries analysis, ML, etc...)
    2. Mathematical operations (avg, sum, etc...)
    3. Logical operations
1. On-device data generation (e.g. generating of events)
1. Device management functionality
    1. OS updates
    1. Package updates
    1. Configuration updates (Of both the thin-edge.io deployment as well as other software)
    1. Firmware updates for "south bound"/child devices
1. Device interaction
    1. File upload/download
    1. Filesystem listings
    1. General system informations

> 1. Persist data as given by components in different databases (e.g. PostgreSQL, Sqlite, MongoDB, Redis, Memcached, ...)

Author: Again . here a reader might assume we will offer all of those or some on thin edge

1. Documentation of each component and their configuration
    - This includes information on how to configure each configurable aspect of the component and its valid states
    - This also includes all message types that the framework knows about
    - Users with custom thin-edge.io deployments must be able to generate such a documentation themselves

## Closing words

thin-edge.io offers a unique approach to unify the needs of both the IT and OT
world by offering a platform design focused on efficiency robustness and
security while offering the highest level of extensibility.

- We are not restricting users towards one specific software artifact type,
  package manager, programming language or message payload to be used on the
  device
- We combine robust and lightweight components with extensibility (plug-in
  mechanisms, mapper concept for cloud/platform support)
- We offer out-of-the-box modules to be used in combination with device
  management platforms
- We offer hardware and infrastructure agnostic deployment of all edge
  capabilities

What business goals do we try to achieve ?

> - This is an open source project licenced under Apache 2.0 , it is focused on enterprise and company (B2B) use, hence why we encourage further partners to join our mission and community to create an industry standard for IoT device enablement and vendor agnostic connectivity and device management. 

Author: I feel the community aspect is a little bit lost here. We have quite a lot to achive and it would be great to call out we can only do tat by expanding our community , "divide and conquer" , and by also be open to collaborate and include exiting framworks to give our users a good package of features

challenge and to focus on the business applications rather then connectivity and
device management aspects, which are in a lot of cases considered "hygiene
factors".

> thin-edge.io enables them to connect industial sensors and automation to a cloud
> service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
thin-edge.io enables them to connect industrial sensors and automation to a cloud
service.
```

Just saw there is a type :D

protocol converters or industrial gateways. Here thin-edge.io helps to unify the
complex device landscape by offering lightweight software modules which can run
on resource constrained, brownfield hardware.
The framework does so by providing a frictionless user experience to enable
customers to develop their own solutions based on the included functionality but

> also by attaching custom functionality with minimum effort.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I think we should keep the background. We can highlight thin edge enabling various layers in their toplogy and seamlessly bringing end to end flows.

## Users and Personas

We define the following personas:

- "End User"
    - Person using a binary that has been built with the thin-edge.io framework
      as well as a finished and working configuration

- "System Integrator"
    - Person using a binary that has been built with the thin-edge.io framework

>       and crafts a configuration suited to solve their problems

Reviewer 4: I agree with Didier suggestion with one small change I would name Fleet Administrator as standard System Operator

>       and crafts a configuration suited to solve their problems

Reviewer 6: I do think that the "End User" needs to be in the picture. This person is interacting with IoT devices using an application built on top of thin-edge. Many requirements make sense only because there are such end users. They main requirement might be to be oblivious of thin-edge; but this will not come without an explicit attention from us.

- "Interface Developer"
    - Person using the foreign interfaces of a thin-edge.io framework binary to
      complement and extend its functionality.

- "Plugin Developer"
    - Person using the provided Rust crates to extend or improve binary plugins

>       written for the thin-edge.io framework

Reviewer 4: My suggestion would be to just it simple - keep this as one Agent Developer. He is the person who uses various building blocks provided by thin-edge, extends and complements where needed, and get the device enabled.

>       written for the thin-edge.io framework

Reviewer 6: There are two kind of developers using thin-edge.

* The "Plugin Developer" implements a component for a very specific feature as connecting a specific kind of sensor, adding support for some OT protocol, adding some analytics capabilities, connecting some cloud-end.
* The "Agent Developer" selects, connects and packages a set of thin-edge components into the software that will run on the IoT devices of an IoT application.

- "Core Developer"
    - Person writing on the provided Rust crates as hosted on github.com

An example for a "System Integrator" or an "Interface Developer" is a **(IoT)
Solution Developer/ Solution Architect**: Background consisting of Python, Java,
JS, Angular, Kubernetes, Cloud Platforms:

- Responsible for implementing and maintaining the end-to-end IoT

>   solution

Reviewer 4: Agree.

      up-to-date (while important to him not always #1 prio to overall
      initiative/project)

An "Embedded Developer" with OT focus is an example of a "Plugin Developer":

- familiar with PLCs, SCADA systems,
- dealing with emerging need for connectivity and IIoT
- key concern is security, robusteness and resource efficiency which is
  usually overruling any "typical" IT solution on the device and implies
  some kind of custom logic. (e.g. rather closed OS, no dependencies can be
  installed, very strict certification and QA process, no CI/CD possible,
  long prodcut lifecycle 10-20 years)

> The persona types adressed by thin-edge.io often have conflicting

Reviewer 6: Personal note. I really don't like the term "persona" when used in a document addressed to a large community of readers. This a UX engineers specific term which adds nothing more than the word "user" when used as here only to distinguish roles. 

```suggestion
The users addressed by thin-edge.io often have conflicting
```

management, intra-edge communication, and certificate management, all aspects
and challenges our target personas need to address.

> We therefore define the following requirements.

Reviewer 6: I would consider to move these requirements in a separate documents. These are derived form the vision and more subject to changes.

Reviewer 4: No matter where we keep it, we should have reference of that to this document.

Reviewer 5: The vision would be a single paragraph. This document also goes into the strategy of how to achieve the vision and is not a pure vision statement. I believe it is very important to describe these key problems and application scenarios/use-cases here as the whole value of thin-edge.io is based on them and they should be well understood by the community.

Author: I think we have to types of content that needs to move:
1. the non functional requirements I would move to the technical vision ( design principles doc
2. the functional aspects and everythin that you could call feature I would put into a more abstracted way into the "roadmap.md"

Reviewer 6: > the functional aspects and everythin that you could call feature I would put into a more abstracted way into the "roadmap.md"

Why not in a [concept overview](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/issues/1416) document?

I think that using the documentation to convey our vision is a good way to be consistent (avoiding to repeat ourselves) and clear (with a single source of truth).

      of the communication of the different components
1. Ability to attach data sources and data sinks to thin-edge.io via different
   mechanisms, either by implementing connectors directly in the framework using
   rust code, attaching them via some networking mechanism (e.g. MQTT) or other
   mechanisms the framework provides
    1. The framework ships with connectivity functionality for the most common
       connectivity requirements
    1. Configuration of connectivity functionality is exposed to the user
    1. Connectivity over the same mechanism but with different configuration
       settings is easily doable for the user (e.g. using MQTT to connect to
       different brokers with completely different settings)
1. Easy deployment and little friction when using thin-edge.io as a framework to
   develop their own solutions based on it
1. Trust in the user to do the right thing with the tools provided, respect
   their decisions and guide them towards a maintainable solution by design
    - Users are assumed to be experts in their domain and should be given the
      tools they need to solve the problems they have. Unnecessarily burdening

>       them with abstractions only causes frustration

Reviewer 6: > Unnecessarily burdening them with abstractions only causes frustration

Can you give an abstraction that would introduce such a burden?

Reviewer 2: For example hiding away the HTTP/MQTT component to some inner framework abstraction that cannot easily be interacted with. Imagine they would have to set a proxy or so. If we are not careful with what kind of abstraction we are running at, the user might not be able to insert their configuration here and thus be in a powerless situation.

1. High configurability and tweakability with high trust in custom changes
   without having to redefine the world on small changes
1. Allow precise configuration inside common solutions shipped by the framework
    - Users are be able to change a small detail of their deployment without
      having to then define unrelated elements
    - As an example: Users wanting to set an SSL certificate should not need to

>       worry about also defining their DNS setup.

Reviewer 6: I don't see this example as relevant in the context of IoT where a device certificate is not related to host names.

Reviewer 2: That is the point! Them not being related is exactly why that should not happen.

1. Reproducability of a configuration
1. Security
    1. Operational Security
        1. Components of the framework are encapsulated and do not influence
           each others execution
        1. The system can recover from bad states in a safe way
        1. Untrusted input is handled in a way that does not influence execution
           in a bad way (e.g. crashes the system)
    1. Information Security
        1. Data access is reglemented
        1. Data origin is verified and potentially encrypted
    1. Code Audit(ability)
        1. Functionality can be audited easily because it is encapsulated (see
           above)
1. Generic solutions over specific solutions
    - Problems are solved in a way that users can define the details as best

>       suited

Reviewer 6: Can you provide an example of a generic solution vs a specific solution?

Reviewer 2: A specific solution is to make a component that makes an HTTP call to a specific URL.

A generic solution would send a `HTTPRequest` message to for example a `HTTP` component.

Sometimes the specific solution is required, but the generic one is preferred.

Reviewer 6: > Data access is reglemented
2 Data origin is verified and potentially encrypted
Functionality can be audited easily because it is encapsulated (see
above)
--> what is the reason for those requirements ? Seems to me like we are preparing thin edge to handle mission-critical or high security systems, if this is the case from a business point we should discuss which IoT use cases we are going after. We are not intending to serve those to my understanding and need to verify what drives those NFR suggestions

I'm aligned with @AndrejS321. These requirements are specific to some particular use-cases - healthcare being a notable example. However, these particular use-cases matter. So we might add a requirement to be able to add such constraints (say be replacing a light MQTT transport layer by an encrypted/auditable transport layer).

      easily doable by an Plugin Developer
1. As little overhead as possible
    1. in CPU time: The Framework ensures that the absolute minimum of CPU time
       is consumed to deliver the desired functionality the user configured the
       framework to do
    1. in Memory usage: The Framework ensures that as little as possible memory
       is in use, at every point in execution time, as possible
1. Compatibility
    - Configuration and components are written in such a way that they may be
      changed in the future with no or minimal impact on their intended purpose

### Functional requirements

<!--
The following list of functional requirements should be considered
non-final. It might be extended in the future.
-->

1. The framework provides MQTT connectivity through a component
1. All errors must be handled in a non-crashing way
    - Unrecoverable errors may still cause the binary to shutdown eventually,
      but not unexpectedly.
1. The core implementation is written in Rust
    - Plugins that connect to a thin-edge.io binary, may be written in another
      programming language
1. A deployment of thin-edge.io consists of a single binary with a single

>    configuration entry-point

Reviewer 2: The reason for this is to simplify this for everyone involved:

- Users only have to learn a single entrypoint, and can expect it to work by using a single binary
- Component Developers can be sure that things are in a single binary (which simplifies the model usually)
- Framework devs (us) don't have to worry about how it gets deployed as much, as well as keeping the whole project focused on a single deliverable.

It also makes sure that no potential proliferation of executables happens.

    - The final configuration may consists of more than one resource (file,
      network resource, etc), and potentially be even loaded over the network,
      this is left open
1. The configuration is the single point of truth w.r.t. the initial state of
   the components mentioned within
    1. The default state of a plugin must be documented
    1. A component may use a (documented) default value for a missing

>        configuration entry

Reviewer 6: This is not clear to me. What is the relationship between the configuration and the initial state? If a plugin has some persisted state, I would expect the configuration giving only a path to a store containing the state of the plugin.

Reviewer 2: So the initial state of a plugin is what the developer has decided to instantiate their component with. What this is saying, is that developers _must not_ derive this initial state from anything _but_ the configuration! So no current time or PWD or other things like that.

The other part is that if there are defaults, they need to be documented.

1. The configuration is the single point of truth for the communication between

>    components inside a single thin-edge.io binary deployment

Reviewer 6: This is not clear to me. Do you mean that the communication  patterns must be defined in the configuration and cannot be pre-cabled in the executable? Why such a strong requirement?

Reviewer 2: What use to have things setup statically and exposed at the same time? If things are hardcoded together then they are a single component. Otherwise they have to expose their inputs/outputs like everything else in the system.

The strong requirement is to make sure that this is something that can be:

1. Abstracted upon (things like interception, monitoring, as well as arbitrary inputs/outputs)
2. Can potentially be replaced for something else if the user wishes, this way the developers do not get to force the user how a certain component is wired up!
3. This way Component developers are forced to expose and thus make available their input/outputs simplifying the ecosystem, and its reasoning (How do I send messages of type X around? Well, you just gotta find something that outputs them!)
